readme.md, before:

# DeepV2D
This repository contains the source code for our paper:

[DeepV2D: Video to Depth with Differentiable Structure from Motion](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04605)<br/>
Zachary Teed and Jia Deng<br/>
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2020<br/>

<img src="data/Depths.png" width="420"> <img src="data/demo.gif" width="400">


## Requirements
Our code was tested using Tensorflow 1.12.0 and Python 3. To use the code, you need to first install the following python packages:

First create a clean virtualenv 

  ```Shell
  virtualenv --no-site-packages -p python3 deepv2d_env
  source deepv2d_env/bin/activate
  ```

  ```Shell
  pip install tensorflow-gpu==1.12.0
  pip install h5py
  pip install easydict
  pip install scipy
  pip install opencv-python
  pip install pyyaml
  pip install toposort
  pip install vtk
  ```

You can optionally compile our cuda backprojection operator by running

```Shell
cd deepv2d/special_ops && ./make.sh && cd ../..
```

This will reduce peak GPU memory usage. You may need to change CUDALIB to where you have cuda is installed.


## Demos

### Video to Depth (V2D)

Try it out on one of the provided test sequences. First download our pretrained models

```Shell
./data/download_models.sh
```
or from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pEUwOw_aOCIz53dGXOnU3KXArzR41YAV/view?usp=sharing)

The demo code will output a depth map and display a point cloud for visualization. Once the depth map has appeared, press any key to open the point cloud visualization.

[NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/nyu_0
```

[ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/scannet.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/scannet_0
```

[KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/kitti.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/kitti_0
```

You can also run motion estimation in `global` mode which updates all the poses jointly as a single optimization problem

```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/nyu_0 --mode=global
```

### Uncalibrated Video to Depth (V2D-Uncalibrated)

If you do not know the camera intrinsics you can run DeepV2D in uncalibrated mode. In the uncalibrated setting, the motion module estimates the focal length during inference. 

```Shell
python demos/demo_uncalibrated.py --video=data/demos/golf.mov
```


### SLAM / VO

DeepV2D can also be used for tracking and mapping on longer videos. First, download some test sequences

```Shell
./data/download_slam_sequences.sh
```

Try it out on [NYU-Depth](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html), [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/), [TUM-RGBD](https://vision.in.tum.de/data/datasets/rgbd-dataset), or [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/). Using more keyframes `--n_keyframes=?` reduces drift but results in slower tracking.


```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=kitti --n_keyframes=2
```

```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=scannet --n_keyframes=3
```

The `--cinematic` flag forces the visualization to follow the camera
```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=nyu --n_keyframes=3 --cinematic
```

The `--clear_points` flag can be used so that only the point cloud of the current depth is plotted.
```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=tum --n_keyframes=3 --clear_points
```


## Evaluation

You can evaluate the trained models on one of the datasets...

#### [NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
```Shell
./data/download_nyu_data.sh
python evaluation/eval_nyu.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt
```

#### [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
First download the dataset using this [script](http://www.cvlibs.net/download.php?file=raw_data_downloader.zip) provided on the official website. Then run the evaluation script where KITTI_PATH is the location of where the dataset was downloaded

```Shell
./data/download_kitti_data.sh
python evaluation/eval_kitti.py --model=models/kitti.ckpt --dataset_dir=KITTI_PATH
```

#### [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
First download the [ScanNet](https://github.com/ScanNet/ScanNet) dataset.

Then run the evaluation script where SCANNET_PATH is the location of where you downloaded ScanNet

```Shell
python evaluation/eval_scannet.py --model=models/scannet.ckpt --dataset_dir=SCANNET_PATH
```


## Training

You can train a model on one of the datasets

#### [NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
First download the training tfrecords file [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-kfW55tpwxFVfv9AL76IFXWuNMBE3b7Y/view?usp=sharing
) (143Gb) containing the NYU data. Once the data has been downloaded, train the model by running the command (training takes about 1 week on a Nvidia 1080Ti GPU)

Camera poses for NYU were estimated using [ORB-SLAM2](https://github.com/raulmur/ORB_SLAM2) using kinect measurements. You can download the estimated poses from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13L8ZrFQM1Jlghicvi6dACosK2hu2T45g/view?usp=sharing).

```Shell
python training/train_nyu.py --cfg=cfgs/nyu.yaml --name=nyu_model --tfrecords=nyu_train.tfrecords
```

Note: this creates a temporary directory which is used to store intermediate depth predictions. You can specify the location of the temporary directory using the `--tmp` flag. You can use multiple gpus by using the `--num_gpus` flag. If you train with multiple gpus, you can reduce the number of training iterations in cfgs/nyu.yaml.



#### [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
First download the dataset using this [script](http://www.cvlibs.net/download.php?file=raw_data_downloader.zip) provided on the official website. Once the dataset has been downloaded, write the training sequences to a tfrecords file

```Shell
python training/write_tfrecords.py --dataset=kitti --dataset_dir=KITTI_DIR --records_file=kitti_train.tfrecords
```

You can now train the model (training takes about 1 week on a Nvidia 1080Ti GPU). Note: this creates a temporary directory which is used to store intermediate depth predictions. You can specify the location of the temporary directory using the `--tmp` flag. You can use multiple gpus by using the `--num_gpus` flag.

```Shell
python training/train_kitti.py --cfg=cfgs/kitti.yaml --name=kitti_model --tfrecords=kitti_train.tfrecords
```

#### [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
```Shell
python training/train_scannet.py --cfg=cfgs/scannet.yaml --name=scannet_model --dataset_dir="path to scannet"
```

Commit message:

Update readme with tensorflow2 setup instructions

readme.md, after:

# DeepV2D TensorFlow 2
This repository is a fork of the original DeepV2D repository, which was written in TensorFlow 1.12.0. Here we changed the relevant parts of the code to run in TensorFlow 2.10.0. The original README is below, only the Requirements section was updated.

# DeepV2D
This repository contains the source code for our paper:

[DeepV2D: Video to Depth with Differentiable Structure from Motion](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04605)<br/>
Zachary Teed and Jia Deng<br/>
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2020<br/>

<img src="data/Depths.png" width="420"> <img src="data/demo.gif" width="400">


## Requirements
The code was tested on Ubuntu 20.04 with a NVIDIA RTX3090 GPU using Tensorflow 2.10.0, Python 3.10 and CUDA 11.1. To use the code, you need to first install the following python packages:

First create a clean virtualenv 

  ```Shell
  conda create -n "deepv2d-tf2" python=3.10 ipython
  conda activate deepv2d-tf2
  ```

  ```Shell
  pip install tensorflow==2.10.0
  pip install h5py
  pip install easydict
  pip install scipy
  pip install opencv-python
  pip install pyyaml
  pip install toposort
  pip install vtk
  pip install tf_slim
  ```

You can optionally compile our cuda backprojection operator by running

```Shell
cd deepv2d/special_ops && ./make.sh && cd ../..
```

This will reduce peak GPU memory usage. You may need to change CUDALIB to where you have cuda is installed.


## Demos

### Video to Depth (V2D)

Try it out on one of the provided test sequences. First download our pretrained models

```Shell
./data/download_models.sh
```
or from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pEUwOw_aOCIz53dGXOnU3KXArzR41YAV/view?usp=sharing)

The demo code will output a depth map and display a point cloud for visualization. Once the depth map has appeared, press any key to open the point cloud visualization.

[NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/nyu_0
```

[ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/scannet.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/scannet_0
```

[KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/kitti.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/kitti_0
```

You can also run motion estimation in `global` mode which updates all the poses jointly as a single optimization problem

```Shell
python demos/demo_v2d.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt --sequence=data/demos/nyu_0 --mode=global
```

### Uncalibrated Video to Depth (V2D-Uncalibrated)

If you do not know the camera intrinsics you can run DeepV2D in uncalibrated mode. In the uncalibrated setting, the motion module estimates the focal length during inference. 

```Shell
python demos/demo_uncalibrated.py --video=data/demos/golf.mov
```


### SLAM / VO

DeepV2D can also be used for tracking and mapping on longer videos. First, download some test sequences

```Shell
./data/download_slam_sequences.sh
```

Try it out on [NYU-Depth](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html), [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/), [TUM-RGBD](https://vision.in.tum.de/data/datasets/rgbd-dataset), or [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/). Using more keyframes `--n_keyframes=?` reduces drift but results in slower tracking.


```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=kitti --n_keyframes=2
```

```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=scannet --n_keyframes=3
```

The `--cinematic` flag forces the visualization to follow the camera
```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=nyu --n_keyframes=3 --cinematic
```

The `--clear_points` flag can be used so that only the point cloud of the current depth is plotted.
```Shell
python demos/demo_slam.py --dataset=tum --n_keyframes=3 --clear_points
```


## Evaluation

You can evaluate the trained models on one of the datasets...

#### [NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
```Shell
./data/download_nyu_data.sh
python evaluation/eval_nyu.py --model=models/nyu.ckpt
```

#### [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
First download the dataset using this [script](http://www.cvlibs.net/download.php?file=raw_data_downloader.zip) provided on the official website. Then run the evaluation script where KITTI_PATH is the location of where the dataset was downloaded

```Shell
./data/download_kitti_data.sh
python evaluation/eval_kitti.py --model=models/kitti.ckpt --dataset_dir=KITTI_PATH
```

#### [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
First download the [ScanNet](https://github.com/ScanNet/ScanNet) dataset.

Then run the evaluation script where SCANNET_PATH is the location of where you downloaded ScanNet

```Shell
python evaluation/eval_scannet.py --model=models/scannet.ckpt --dataset_dir=SCANNET_PATH
```


## Training

You can train a model on one of the datasets

#### [NYUv2](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html):
First download the training tfrecords file [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-kfW55tpwxFVfv9AL76IFXWuNMBE3b7Y/view?usp=sharing
) (143Gb) containing the NYU data. Once the data has been downloaded, train the model by running the command (training takes about 1 week on a Nvidia 1080Ti GPU)

Camera poses for NYU were estimated using [ORB-SLAM2](https://github.com/raulmur/ORB_SLAM2) using kinect measurements. You can download the estimated poses from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13L8ZrFQM1Jlghicvi6dACosK2hu2T45g/view?usp=sharing).

```Shell
python training/train_nyu.py --cfg=cfgs/nyu.yaml --name=nyu_model --tfrecords=nyu_train.tfrecords
```

Note: this creates a temporary directory which is used to store intermediate depth predictions. You can specify the location of the temporary directory using the `--tmp` flag. You can use multiple gpus by using the `--num_gpus` flag. If you train with multiple gpus, you can reduce the number of training iterations in cfgs/nyu.yaml.



#### [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/):
First download the dataset using this [script](http://www.cvlibs.net/download.php?file=raw_data_downloader.zip) provided on the official website. Once the dataset has been downloaded, write the training sequences to a tfrecords file

```Shell
python training/write_tfrecords.py --dataset=kitti --dataset_dir=KITTI_DIR --records_file=kitti_train.tfrecords
```

You can now train the model (training takes about 1 week on a Nvidia 1080Ti GPU). Note: this creates a temporary directory which is used to store intermediate depth predictions. You can specify the location of the temporary directory using the `--tmp` flag. You can use multiple gpus by using the `--num_gpus` flag.

```Shell
python training/train_kitti.py --cfg=cfgs/kitti.yaml --name=kitti_model --tfrecords=kitti_train.tfrecords
```

#### [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/):
```Shell
python training/train_scannet.py --cfg=cfgs/scannet.yaml --name=scannet_model --dataset_dir="path to scannet"
```
